<TITLE>NIST Python Workshop, Software Mgmt Session Report</TITLE>

<H1>NIST Python Workshop - Software Management Session Report</H1>
<ADDRESS>ken.manheimer@nist.gov, 301 975-3539</ADDRESS> <P>
Original 20-Nov-1994, last mod 24-Nov-1994. <P>

<IMG SRC="pictures/PyWorldTour.tn.gif" ALT = "GvR/Python World Tour, '94">

<H2>Intro</H2>

As suggested in my <A HREF="software-mgt.html" >prospectus for this
session</A>, we concentrated on certain immediate coding issues that
involve intrinsic python features, as opposed to add-on layers or
extensions.  The idea is to address intrinsic issues now, before the
features (or lack thereof) are more ensconced, and therefore more
difficult to change, down the road. <P>

Starting with my list of prospective topics, the group concentrated on
identifying suitable topics, and came up with the following: <P>

<UL>
<LI> Packaging related suites of modules
<LI> Intrinsic docs - "doc strings"
<LI> Programmer interface
<LI> Module customization interface
<LI> Module versioning
<LI> Programming conventions - guide, module templates
<LI> Code testing, python test suite.<P>
</UL>

Of these items, we took on:

<LI> <A HREF="pkgs-prop.html">program modularity</A>,
<LI> <A HREF="docstr-prop.html">instrinsic docs</A>, and
<LI> <A HREF="custs-prop.html">module customization</A>. <P>

We also paid some brief attention to: <P>

<LI> <A HREF="vrsn-prop.html">module versioning</A> and
<LI> <A HREF="spam-vars.html">pseudo-code variable names</A>. <P>

(We saw the remaining items either as being implementable more
suitably as language extrinsics, or else, as programmer interfaces,
sufficiently large and amorphous enough to best be considered another
time.) <P>

As a preview, the code in <A HREF="custom.py">custom.py</A>
exhibits many of the prospective features discussed in the meeting. <P>

<H2>Conclusion</H2>

The python software management session was lively and productive.  I
know that i pushed my agenda through, but i tried to do so in a way
that took redirection and suggestions from others.  We did incorporate
some items not on my agenda, and my preexisting proposals were changed
(and, i think, were improved) by the interchange.  I think that the
resulting proposals substantively reflect the attention and input from
all involved, resulting in better schemes than would have come out of
any isolated efforts. <P>

I hope that the resulting proposals offer significant advances on the
respective python features, and are suitable for inclusion in the
language.  Further comments and suggestions are emphatically welcomed
- in particular, note the uncertain items bracketed by doubled '??'
question marks.  Please feel free to send email directly to me, and/or
the python lists. <P>

<ADDRESS>
<PRE>
Ken Manheimer	      					301 975-3539
ken.manheimer@nist.gov				   FAX: 301 963-9137

	Network Engineering Group,
	Computer Systems and Communications Division,

		National Institute of Standards and Technology
		Technology A151
		Gaithersburg, MD 20899

</PRE>
</ADDRESS>
