<!DOCTYPE HTML SYSTEM "html.dtd">
<HTML><HEAD><TITLE>The Second Python Workshop</TITLE></HEAD>
<BODY>
<H1>The Second Python Workshop</H1>
<PRE> $Revision: 16 $, $Date: 1995-05-22 00:50:43 +0200 (Mon, 22 May 1995) $
</PRE>
<!--$Id: announcement.html 16 1995-05-21 22:50:43Z mclay $-->
<DL>
<DT><STRONG>Workshop Announcement</STRONG>
<DD>
The Second Python Workshop is scheduled for May 22, 23, 24, and 25.
It will be held in Menlo Park, CA at the U.S. Geological
Survey facility (U.S.G.S.).  (Thanks go
to Jim Fulton for making arrangements for the facility.) Here is a
list with <A HREF="hotels.html">hotel information</A> and a <A
HREF="USGS_map.gif">map to the USGS</A>.   

<DT><STRONG>Call for Papers and for Volunteers</STRONG> 
<DD> 

As was done at the last workshop, facilitators have been assigned to
each topic area.  Papers for the meeting can be submitted prior
to the meeting, or as reports after the meeting.  You do not
have to attend the workshop to submit a paper and you don't have to
submit a paper to attend the workshop.  Please send papers to
mclay@eeel.nist.gov to have them included in the proceedings.  All the
proceedings will be published on the Web.

<P>

DEADLINE: The proceedings will be published as a Web document so the
publishing deadline is flexible.  We would like the papers in as soon
as possible, but some reports will be completed after the meeting.  It
would be helpful to give others attending the workshop a chance to
preview your work, so please send in a title and abstract as soon as
you can.  You can send in an early draft or your papers if work is
still in progress, we can always update a paper at a later date.

<DT><STRONG>Workshop Fee</STRONG>
<DD>

This second workshop will not have a fee.  Donations to cover the cost
of a refreshments may be collected at the meeting.

<P> 

We are fortunate in that this second meeting will be another freebee.
In the future we expect it will be necessary to charge a fee for the
workshops.

<DT><STRONG>Signing up for the Workshop</STRONG>
<DD>
To sign up to attend send an email to mclay@eeel.nist.gov.  We are
starting to approach the capacity of the room, so if you plan on
attending, please be sure to send a note as soon as possible.

<DT><STRONG>Workshop Location</STRONG>
<DD>
<PRE>
     U.S. Geological Survey
     Rm: 7250 (on the second floor)
     275 Middlefield Road, Building 7
     Menlo Park, California  94025-3591
     (for information about the USGS campus contact:
	Polly Bennett 415-329-4049 or  
	Janice Wells 415-329-4033)
     FAXs may be sent to 415-329-4026, attn: Janice or Polly, of
	 course with some additional indication of who it is for and
	 that they are at the Python Workshop.

     (about 15-minutes south of the San Francisco airport)
</PRE>

</DL>

<H1>The Workshop Agenda</H1>

The Workshop final schedule will be posted after the meeting:-)  The
following is expected to be pretty close to what you can expect.

<HR>
<H3>May  22</H3>

<H2>PSA Steering Committee Meeting</H2>

The Python Software Association Steering Committee will meet at 3:00
PM on May 22 in room 7250 of building 7 at the U.S.G.S. facility.  The
topic for the meeting will be the official formation of the PSA.  If
you are not on the Steering Committee and would like to attend please
contact paul@cminds.com.

<P>

If you plan to attend, please review the PSA documentation on this
server and be prepared to discuss issues concerning the goal and
operation of the association.

<P>

The meeting will adjourn at 5:30 and reconvene at a local eating
establishment.  (We'll write the restaurant name on the board, for
those who show up after we've headed out to it.:-)

<HR>

<H3>May  23, 24, and 25 1995</H3>

<H2>Workshop Sessions</H2>

The sessions will run from 8:30 AM to 5:00 PM on all three days.
Donuts, Spam, and coffee will be available starting at 8:30.  Dinner
arrangements will be made at the workshop.

<P>
<HR>
<HR>
<H3>Tuesday May 23 from 8:45 - 12:00</H3>
<H2>Administrative Topics and Introductions</H2>
    <STRONG>Moderator - </STRONG> Paul Everitt
<P>

We discuss and iron out the general shape of the meeting, hear the
prospects of a Python Software Association, and introduce ourselves
and our interests in Python.

<UL>
    <LI>Welcome and introductions. (Michael McLay)
    <LI>Discussion of meeting agenda. (Everyone)
    <LI>Python organizational issues. (Paul Everitt)
      <UL> 
       <LI>Python Software Association status. -  Report on the steering
       committee meeting.  
       <LI>Business use of Python - Don't read too much into this.
       Python will remain freely available over the net.
      </UL>
    <LI>Participant introductions and a conversation on what people do
with Python. (Position papers - published on web page, brief 5 minute
presentations to introduce the topic of the paper.) (Michael McLay)
     <LI>Discussion on the appropriate content for the PSA WWW server.
(Paul Everitt)
   </UL>
<HR>

<H3>Tuesday May 23 from 1:00 - 5:00</H3>
<H2>Distributed Computing</H2>
    <STRONG>Moderator - </STRONG> Roger Masse
<P>

Participants in some distributed-computing efforts sketch out their
systems and their connections with Python, Guido discusses some recent
python enhancements to facilitate distributed computing.  The idea is
to have a <em> loose-</em>format panel, with time set aside for
focused presentations without restricting general participation.

<UL>
  <LI>Panel on Distributed Object Systems
  <UL>
      <LI> <A href="ftp://ftp.parc.xerox.com/pub/ilu/tutorial.tar.gz">ILU</A> 
	(Bill Janssen)  
      <LI> OpenDoc (Neil Katin)
      <LI> <a href="http://www.faslab.com/fresco/FAQ.html#How does one find out more about CORBA">CORBA</A> (Saurabh Srivastava)
      <LI> OLE (?James Ahlstrom?)
      <LI> Questions and discussion with the panel (Everyone)
  </UL>
  <LI> <A href="/~guido/WIP.html#Objects">Objects on the net - pickle,
       shelf, remote import, safe Python</A> (Guido van Rossum)    
  <LI> Discussion of Python and distributed computing (Everyone)
</UL>
<HR>
<HR>
<H3>Wednesday May 24 from 8:45 - 12:00</H3>
<H2>Extension Modules and Basic Applications</H2>
    <STRONG>Moderator - </STRONG> Aaron Watters
<P>

Works-in-progress reports on various Python applications and modules.
Each will be from 5 to 20 minutes, plus 5 to 10 minutes for questions
and discussion.  We will also have time to discuss ideas about
facilitating and coordinating these kinds of efforts.

<UL>
    <LI> Works-in-progress reports.
   <UL>
      <LI> <A href="/~guido/WIP.html#Python and the Web">Python and the web</A> - (Guido van Rossum)
      <LI> <A HREF="sql.html">SQL in Python, Python in SQL</A> -
(Aaron Watters) 
      <LI> Andrew Kuchling's <A HREF="pct.html">Python Crytographer's Toolkit</A> (Ken Manheimer) (and see <A HREF="onetime">One-shot password script</A>)
      <LI> <A href="http://windchime.arc.nasa.gov:80/~grendel/pkim.html">Khoros module</A> - an image processing package (Raymond Suorsa)
      <LI> MMACE's application execution control panel (Michael McLay)  
      <LI> Career Web (Eric Bouck)
      <LI> Info Seek (Andy Bensky)
      <LI> The PLplot module (Michael McLay)
   </UL>
   <LI> Identifying important extensions, current and future (GUI,
persistence, etc.) 
(Michael McLay)
   <LI> Contributing modules to the PSA (Paul Everitt)
</UL>
<HR>
<H3>Wednesday May 24 from 1:00 - 5:00</H3>
<H2> Graphical User Interfaces</H2>
    <STRONG>Moderator - </STRONG>  Jim Fulton
<P>

Presentations of ongoing efforts to integrate existing graphical user
interface systems into Python, and discussion of some of the general
issues.
<P>
Introduction (Jim Fulton)
<P>
     Presentations:
<P>
<UL>
<LI>       Microsoft Foundation Classes. (Jim Ahlstrom) 
<LI>       <A href="http://www.aiai.ed.ac.uk/~jacs/wx/wxpython/wxpython.html">WxPython</A>. (Harri Pasanen) 
<LI>       <A href="http://www.faslab.com/fresco/HomePage.html">Pesto</A>. (Denis Bohm) 
<LI>       <A href="http://www.faslab.com/fresco/HomePage.html">Fresco Object Builder - using Pesto</A>. (Steve Tang) 
<LI>       A Python GUI model (Jim Ahlstrom)
<LI>       Tk Interface Toolkit, IT (John Viega)
<LI>	   <A href="Tkgu.html">C and Python interface to Tk</A>. (Brian Warkentine)
</UL>
     Discussion:
<P>
<UL>
       A discussion on the plurality of options -- MFC wrapper,
       Fresco, wxPython, MacApp, etc. -- Is there a need for a 
       standard Python GUI and what should it look like? (Everyone)
</UL>
  An hour will be allowed for discussion, so each of the presentations
  will be limited to 30 minutes.
<HR>
<HR>
<H3>Thursday May 25 from 8:45 - 12:00</H3>
<H2>Python Core</H2>
    <STRONG>Moderator - </STRONG>  Guido van Rossum
<P>

Presentations and discussions of recent proposals and developments for
python core-language facilities.

<UL>
  <LI> The python object API proposals. (Jim Fulton)
  <LI> Extensible compound statements. (Jim Fulton)
  <LI> <A href="/~guido/WIP.html#Optimization">Optimizations project</A>. (Guido or Jim Roskind) 
  <LI> Issues with adding persistence to Python. (?Jim Roskind or
       someone from InfoSeek?)  
  <LI> Ideas on calling <A href="lutz.html">Python from an embedding environment</A>. (Mark Lutz)  
  <LI> What's next.
   <UL>
     <LI> <A href="/~guido/WIP.html#plans">Plans for releases 1.2.1, 1.3, 2.0..</A>. (Guido van Rossum)
     <LI> Wish list and futurism. (Everyone)
   </UL>
</UL>
<HR>
<H3>Thursday May 24 from 1:00 - 3:30</H3>
<H2>Python Software Development Environment</H3>
    <STRONG>Moderator - </STRONG>   Ken Manheimer
<P>

Discussion of some recent developments in the Python software
development environment, and directions and priorities for further
development.  See
<A HREF="http://www.python.org/misc/workshop5-95/sftmgmtsess.html"
>Session Prospectus</A> for draft overview.

<UL>
  <LI> <A HREF="http://www.python.org/misc/workshop5-95/sftmgmtsess.html">Recent
developments from last workshop - docstrings, package import</A>. (Ken Manheimer)
  <LI> Where next - what's important, and who's working on what?
(Guido or Ken)
  <LI> <A href="/~guido/WIP.html#Version Control">Version control within Python</A>. (Guido van Rossum)
  <LI> The Linux Documentation Project (Paul Everitt)
</UL>
<HR>
<H3>Thursday May 24 from 3:30 - 5:00</H3>
<H2>General Wrap-up</H3>
Conclusion, free ranging discussion, friendly chatter, and The Spanish
Inquisition.
<BODY>
