<html>
<head>
<title> Python Progress Report Session </title>
</head>
<body>
<h1> Python Progress Report Session </h1>
<i> Session Chair: Roger Masse </i>
<br>
<a name="guido>
<h3> Guido's report on Python changes and plans </h3>
<ul>
   <li> Review of the last workshop promises
   <ul>
      <li> New HTTP server in the library
      <li> remote import
      <ul>
         <li> facilities are there but not redily available
         <li> used in grail
         <li> security is still an issue
      </ul>
      <li> Distributed Computing
      <ul>
         <li> RPC framework - obsoleted by ILU
         <li> remote filesystem access - RCS and CVS
         <li> CNRI handle server interface 
         <ul>
            <li> distributed as part of grail
            <li> will become part of the standard distribution
         </ul>
      </ul>
      <li> Changes to the python core
      <ul>
         <li> great renaming - still not done :-(
         <li> new generic object API - part of 1.3 as <i> abstract.[ch]</i>
         <li> optimizations - ideas from Jim Roskins
         <li> C trace for exceptions - forgot about it :-(
         <li> Packages - part of 1.3 as module <i> ni </i>
      </ul>
      <li> Futurism
      <ul>
         <li> Getting the current exception - not yet
         <li> third argument to raise (add this stack to the 
              beginning of the exception stack)
         <li> explicit interpreter state - see code mobility
         <li> move C stack out of the way - ditto
         <li> restricted execution - part of grail
         <li> keyword parameters - done
         <li> assignment operators - if i ever get more time :-(
         <ul>
            <li> += operator planned for limited use
         </ul>
      </ul>
      <li> No-no's
      <ul>
         <li> Garbage collection - Jim Fulton offered to spend time here
         <li> (Requiring) universal thread support
         <ul>
            <li> Leveraging on John Osterhout's paper (something like:
                 <i> threads are bad </i>) soon to be presented
            <li> For those who want threads, it *is* available,
                 but let's not *require* thread support from the 
                 underlying OS
            <li> The interpreter isn't really written to take advantage
                 of multiple threads running on different CPU's
            <li> There is a good oportunity to take advantage of this
                 in a library (e.g. matrix)
         </ul>
         <li> Python compiler - could be built using the new
              <i> parser </i> module
         <li> translating to other languages - ditto (<i> parser </i>)
         <li> the <i> access </i> statement - almost gone - it tuned out
              not to be the right tool for security architectures - something
              else in the future will be hopfully better
      </ul>
   </ul>
   <li> Spam-3 What's cooking?
   <ul>
      <li> explosive growth of the python community
      <li> windows platform gaining popularity
      <li> upcoming Python Book (O'Reilly) probably April 96
   </ul>
   <li> what have I been doing
   <ul>
      <li> Grail
      <li> security work
      <ul>
         <li> grail applets
         <li> restricted CGI scripts for WWW providers - give users a
              opportunity to set up their own home page *complete* with CGI
              in a safe way
      </ul>
      <li> code mobility work
      <ul>
         <li> <i> pickling </i> the stack and other hidden interpreter state
         <li> requires rewrite of interpreter main loop - alot of work
         <li> Q: preformance?
         <li> Q: hopfully better
      </ul>
      <li> pedestrian work - with alittle help from my friends
      <ul>
         <li> Tkinter port to the MAC
         <li> Next Python distribution 1.3.1
         <ul>
            <li> bugfix for 1.3
            <li> new versions of modules required for Grail
            <li> no date planned yet (probably early 1996)
         </ul>
         <li> The great renaming - any volunteers?
         <li> configuration and setup - automate selection of modules
              and should the be in shared libraries and putting them there
      </ul>
   </ul>
</ul>
<br>
<a name="panel">
<h3> Panel Discussion on <i> "What's Next" </i> </h3>
<i>Panel: Ted Strollo, Mark Hammond, Jim Ahlstrom, Mike Mclay, Paul Everitt</i>
<p>
<i> Moderator: Barry Warsaw </i>
<br>
<ul>
   <li> Panelists stories:
   <ul> 
      <li> Paul: uses python for development on a contract basis
      <li> Mark: uses python purely for windows - high volume
           not really interesting in anything that's not native l&f
      <li> Jim: started using python to interface to lagacy code to
           windows.  A way of using more modern data storage
      <li> Ted: CNRI's interest in python.  Knowbot project (code
           mobility) and we just love the language
      <li> Mike: pushing the <i> STEP? </i> standard which is a
           product exchange standard.  let's try using a tool as
           the mechanism for standard interfacing.  (e.g. a printed
           circuit board as a python constructor)
      <ul>
         <li> build in usage protection and royalty collection into 
              download protocol
         <li> PSA formed out of the LEOMA (Laser and Electro-optics
              Manf. Association) model 
         <li> PSA as a quality control monitor
         <
      </ul>
   </ul>
   <li> Let's turn it around: "What can we do?"
   <li> Question and Answer
   <ul>
      <li> Q: what's being done on the convergence of DLL's for the 
           various python ports for windows?
      <li> A: for the python core it's 99% there
      <li> Q: Do you develop on NT or 95?
      <li> A: NT and compile 95 binaries
      <li> Mark: the native look and feel issue is the most important
           thing to gain acceptance in the windows market
      <li> Jim: There is no good 3.11 port for python win32s is 
           slow even with alot of memory, so a native 16bit app is 
           the only *real* way to go, then you have all the addressing
           problems
      <li> The DLL for core python *may* get done if slight differences
           in console input/output can be addressed
      <li> Q: From a language issue, is there anything missing?
      <li> Paul: the <i> language </i> should not be a topic for the panel
      <li> Barry: A nice addition to the core library would be ILU or SYLU
      <li> Assertion: if we had a native l&f module that worked on every
           platform, we'd be better than *any* other language
      <li> Ken: last workshop's GUI session agreed that a base-line GUI
           (runs everywhere) in addition to the full blown platform 
           dependant issues
      <li> Q: what are perceived impediments
      <li> Assertion: a common Object class like objective-C with methods
           like <i> super </i> for all objects
      <li> Response <i> super </i> can't be done with MI
      <li> Licencing Issues: Q: Is the fact that Grail downloads source
           a hinderince to commercial ventures?
      <li> Mark: Yes but so is cost (why Java is both good and bad)
           good that it obfuscates the source, bad cause it costs
           I'd like grail to grok pyc files, cause that's how I'd like 
           to distribute software
      <li> SGI has taken python and changed it's name to <i> momba? </i>
           but that have contributed there plans back to the PSA but
           did not give credit to python or Guido... but (on the other
           hand) it was a very small research
      <li> Infoseek uses python, has enhance python performance, and gives
           alot of publicity to python
      <li> Proposal: GNU copyleft for Grail?  CWI copyright for Python?
      <li> There have been quite a few companys that have been successful
           basing their products on gnu
      <li> Ted: Grail licencing.  We did not want the likes of Microsoft
           or some other big organization with deep pockets to
           <i> take over </i> grail.  At the same time, Bob is 
           sensitive to commercial requirment for use of Grail
      <li> Proposal: require contributed software to have a certain
           copyright structure
      <li> Paul: what can the PSA do better?, documenting things?
      <li> Jim Fulton: I think we should have more contact with USENIX
      <li> On <i> python.org </i> having a very visible todo list
           to facilitate more voluteer work
      <li> reorganize the ftp sight (e.g contrib directory)
      <li> Ted: Bob Kahn wants to "pull the stops out" and really grow the
           PSA 
      <li> Problem: the matrix folks are getting code from the matrix sight
           not <i> python.org </i>
      <li> Q: would you like my contributed NEXTSTEP Quad-fat binary for
           python?  Does that screw with the pyc files?
      <li> Yes to 1) and No to 2)
      <li> Paul: We are doing more in the PSA and this third workshop 
           went quite well!
   </ul>
</ul>

<h3> Python Workshop Feedback Session </h3>
<li> Workshop Wrapup
<li> Discussion of Workshop as a Forum

</body>
</html>

