<html>
<head>
<title>Opening Session</title>
</head>
<body>
<h1>Special Interest Group (SIG) Reports</h1>
<br>
<ul>
   <a name="gui"><h3>GUI Sig (Jim Fulton) </h3>
   <ul>
      <li> We're not trying to come up with a standard for GUI
      <li> What we want is a GUI tool that can have a goal of a 
           broad availablity to a large subset of the Python audience
      <li> Formed the GUI SIG as a forum to discuss this
      <li> Meet Thursday to continue the debate and have the "bake off" 
   </ul>
   <br>
   <a name="locator"><h3>Locator SIG (Paul Everitt)</h3>
   <ul>
      <li> Problem: people can only find python software by connecting 
           to Python.org and surfing for information randomly.
      <li> Goal: Make software easier to find
      <li> Added the search engine on the home page
      <li> Looking for ideas and support
      <li> Will a centralized software registry work for people? 
      <li> Most attendees agreed they would use a s/w registry
           if it were available.
      <li> Firewalls could be a problem to using such a tool
      <li> Looking for things that Guido does *not* have to do
      <li> Idea from last time (quite ambitious) run harvest indexer
           through all the modules indexing doc strings.
      <li> Nice idea but most folks will not conform to writing doc strings...
      <li> This group is *not* the documentation SIG, the goal is to find
           software
      <li> We need a small set of standards for a bare bones indexing
           mechanism.
      <li> After software, we need a service to locate people with python
           expirtise
   </ul>
   <br>
   <a name="matrix"><h3>Matrix SIG (Jim Fulton - Jim H. - MIT)</h3>
   <ul>
      <li> Problem: lots of matrix and other computational fortran code 
           out there - would be nice to interface this via python
      <li> Jim Fultun presented a tool at the last workshop that provided
           a standard interface to matrix code written in fortran.
      <li> goal of the sig is to standardize on one method
      <li> Current status - the interface works
      <li> Also implemented a *complex* number object
      <li> in another month it should be ready for review by Guido
           for possible inclusion in python
      <li> very fast!
   </ul>
   <br>
   <a name="doc"><h3>Documentation SIG (Michael McLay)</h3>
   <ul>
      <li> If you don't standardize the format for which the information 
           is submitted, it's very tough to automate anything
      <li> Charter: create a forum for document form and content
      <li> Model our project after the linux documentation project
      <li> Format options - postscript, HTML, info , troff, pyc files?
      <li> Subject Matter - Python core, extention modules, applications,
           applets
      <li> PSA stamp of approval as an incentive
   </ul>
   <br>
   <a name="progenv"><h3>Programming Environment SIG (Ken Manheimer)</h3>
   <ul>
      <li> This SIG is new
      <li> Goal: To produce a set of tools for use in developing python 
           software
      <li> readline, python-mode (emacs), environment browsers, documentation,
           standards for documentation, and of course the core interpreter
      <li> More during tommorrows session
   </ul>
   <br>
   <a name="pythonwin"><h3>PythonWin SIG (Mark Hammond)</h3>
   <ul>
      <li> Mostly a forum for submitting bugs
      <li> Mark has most of the postings
      <li> More during the PythonWin tutorial
      <li> thus far Mark's been conservative with postings on
           the Microsoft software news groups for fear of being swamped
      <li> 
   </ul>
   <br>
   <a name="meta"><h3> Meta SIG</h3>
   <ul>
       <li> A SIG to debate the creating of new SIGS
   </ul>
</ul>
</body> 
</html>