<html>
<head>
<title>Thursday June 6th</title>
<!-- Changed by: Roger E. Masse, 12-Jun-1996 -->
</head>
<body>
<h1>Thursday June 6th</h1>
<h2>SIG Working Groups </h2>
<h3><A HREF="../../../sigs/doc-sig/">Documentation</A></h3>
<b> Michael McLay </b><p> 
<ul>
    <li> Documentation Strings
    <ul>
          <li> Should docstrings be different?
          <li> Guido: Must be string objects as defined by the C code
          <li> Proposal: What about something like a URL that
                 points to the file with the docstrings
          <li> Guido: I'm OK with that
          <li> Maybe they could be put in the pyc file at the end
                 in a place after the code object.
          <li> Closure: We need to have some better metrics on importing
                 before we can agree on the best solution.
          <li> Robin: I will organize some research into this on
               the documentation SIG
          <li> Guido: Maybe the format that Harri's OO Browser format
               should be the
               'viewing' format that we should standardize on?
          <li> Response: Not all my users are going to be willing to live with
	       the overhead of emacs for viewing documentation.  A
	       simpler model would be better.
          <li> Proposal: maybe we could use Daniel Larsson's <I> gendoc </I>?
          <li> Jim Hugunin: I just ran out and did a test on a large .py
               file (500 classes - 2 megabytes) with a 1 to 10 ratio of
               code to docstrings (worst case scenario).
	       The first time you import the module, it takes 4 seconds
               to load with the docstrings included and 2 seconds without.
               The second time you import it (the only test that really
               matters... loading the pyc file), the difference is
               much less: .3 seconds with and .2 seconds without.  
          <li> Conclusion: Overhead of docstrings is *not* an issue.
               Docstrings are good!
          <li> Closure: Let's still put <I> gendoc </I> tool in the 
                 contrib area of the ftp sight.
          <li> <I> gendoc </I> in a way is
               better than <i> docco </i> since it deals
               with pure imports (extension modules are then included).
               <I> docco </I> operates on source.
          <li> Proposal: Maybe <I> gendoc </I> and <I> docco </I> need
               to have a common intermediate format so output
               formatter modules could be shared.
          <li> Who is going to do this work? 
          <li> Jim Fulton: I want to be able to extract more information
               from builtin types without instantiating it.... make them
               more like classes.  Wants builtins to
	       <I> smell </I> more like classes.
          <li> Guido: I agree that would be a good thing.
          <li> Guido: I still want to reinforce the notion that the
               first line of a docstring should be a consise description
               of the method, followed by a blank line,
               and then the rest of the contents of the docstring.
    </ul>
</ul>
<h3><A HREF="../../../sigs/progenv-sig/">Programming Environment</A></h3>
<b>Fred Drake</b><p>
<ul>
    <li> How about Graphical Development Tools?
    <li> We should use a cross platform GUI... Tk is it.
    <li> Robyn: I'm concerned about the footprint of Tk
    <li> Roger: I don't think the memory problems in Tk
           are a perminant problem.  Both Tk and Tkinter have
           leaks but these should be fixable in the long term.
    <li> Greg: I want native look-and-feel for my users, they
           are too easily confused.
    <li> Guido: Tk on the MAC and Windows is *not* a motif "program".
            It's buttons and scrollbars that just don't happen
            to be native look-and-feel... they are not that different!
    <li> Roger: The Tk folks have promised native look-and-feel eventually
    <li> Jim: We've heard all this before...  let's assign this conversation
         to a 'macro' so we can replay it for the benifit of those who've
         not heard it before... Lets call it <I> Macro 57 </I> :-)
    <li> Fred: I'm going to try and implement a Tkinter based GUI class
         browser in my spare time.
    <li> OO Browsers storage format is ascii... which is a good starting
         point for the persistance so the tools can interoperate.
</ul>
<h3><A HREF="../../../sigs/gui-sig/">GUI</A></h3>
<b>Jim Ahlstrom</b><p>
<ul>
    <li> <I> Macro 57 </I>
</ul>
<h2>Developer's Future Enhancements</h2>
<ul>
    <li> Lee Busby's wish list
    <ul>
        <li> replace interfaces to I/O and memory manager with function
             pointers.  This is so one can redirect standard I/O or
             use a different memory manager
             more easily.  Lee said he would implement this.
        <li> Dave: This would be very useful  for parallel machines
        <li> Provide conditional code to catch SIGFPE.  Basis and Yorick
             can provide example code. Lee will do this too :-)
        <li> Make <i> -u </I> command line option to unbuffer stdout,
             stdin, stderr.  Also allow the user to force prompts on,
             even if stdin, stdout are pipes.  We 
             need this to run Python batch jobs also with rsh.  Lee will do.
        <li> More and better documentation for Python API extensions.
    </ul>
    <li> Creation of a new SIG: ORB SIG
    <ul>
         <li> Establish some kind of standard binding for CORBA from Python
         <li> Would like to submit to OMG
         <li> Instead of generating stubs like ILU, instead you use a
              repository to hold this information.
         <li> Hopefully Bill Janseen (Xerox PARC - ILU) could participate in
                this SIG in order to advise on the parts of CORBA that
                intersect ILU functionality... so they could be implemented
                in a complimentary way,
                Bill where are you?
         <li> Volunteer to chair?  Jim will administer list, David Arnold
              will chair
    </ul>
    <li> Don Beaudry Hack - MESS (Presented by: Guido van Rossum)
    <ul>
        <li> Allows an extension C module to provide subclassable types:
        <pre>
class MySpecial(BaseSpecial):
	clvar = 42
	def math(self, arg): print arg
        </pre>
        <li> if... <pre> type(BaseSpecial) </pre> ...is callable,
             it will be invoked like:
        <pre>
	t = type(BaseSpecial)
	t("MySpecial", (BaseSpecial,), dict)
        </pre>
        <li> ...where...
             <pre> dict = {'clvar':42, 'math':<function math>} </pre>
        <li> Layered on the first base class
        <li> Return value of call is stored as: <pre> MySpecial </pre>
        <li> extension can do whatever it wants
        <li> Don's <b> MESS </b> uses this
        <li> See David Ascher's home page (from Python contrib page) and David
               has a pointer to Don's MESS
    </ul>
    <li> Jim Fulton - Meta Type Proposal
    <ul>
         <li> A method of providing information about a type
              much like you can with classes
         <li> New type: Metatype
         <li> This work is a subset of MESS functionality.
         <li> Jim is going to release his work as sort of a
              <I> lightweight </I> MESS
         <li> Jim's goal: Weither you use my Metatype, or Don's MESS
              I want to provide a consistant interface for interrogating
              types.  Propose a uniform protocol for interfacing with
              types system extensions.
         <li> Jim's Metatype is a <I> callable </I> type
         <li> Meta Protocol
         <ul>
               <li> Interesting Meta information about classes...
               <ul>
                    <li> class name, parent class name(s), attributes
                         (including methods)
                    <li> Is this the appropriate interface for types?  
                    <li> Guido and Jim will continue this
                         conversation off-line...
              </ul>
         </ul>
    </ul>
    <li> Jim Fulton: Can we get modules to have a <I> getattr </I> and
         <I> setattr </I> attributes?
    <li> Guido: Putting that hook in the module, it doesn't get it
         right for globals. To get it right it needs to be in the dictionary.
    <li> assign a function to <I> getitem </I> and <I> setitem </I> for
         a dictionary.
    <li> Jim: I can't <I> setattr </I> for <I> __doc__ </I> on instances
    <li> Guido: Send me the patch, and I'll put it in 1.4
    <li> Jim: In order to turn on Packages, you need to import <I> ni </I>
         then call <I> ni.ni()</I>. <i> Ni </i> should install itself
         once you import it.
    <li> Guido: This is fixed in 1.4, just <I> import ni
         </I> installs <I> ni </I> the first time you import it.
    <li> Jim: When you import a package, and it has an <I> __init__ </I>
         module, then the objects that it defines are not visible to
         other modules in the package without
         the <I> __init__ </I> <b> install </b> the objects in each module.
    <li> Jim: I would like to be able to import a package and treat
         it's objects like <I> package.object</I>.
    <li> Guido: It's not sufficient to make the package scope as the
         same as the module scope.
    <li> Guido: I prefer to think about packages as a collection of
         modules.  There is no <I> package </I> object.
    <li> Jim: There was a thread some months ago about a desire for
         automating memory managment for modules.  Something that
         matches your <I> inref</I>s and decref</I>s.
    <li> <I> Purify </I> helps find these leaks at runtime.
    <li> Jim: A possible solution is to add an attribute to the type
         object that contains a list of all the objects that are
         instances of it.
    <li> Guido: You would also need a doubly linked list of all your
         types that contain all the references.
    <li> Who will do this?
    <li> Jim agreed to write this up and publish it on our web pages.
    <li> Proposal: Last workshop someone wished for <I> += </I> and <I> -= </I>
            Has anything been done with this?
   <li> Guido: No, but it can be done... There are some issues of
        unexpected results when mixing lists and tuples... for example.
   <li> Greg Stein will be working on some form of statement
        coverage tool, possibly with a graphical interface.  Hopefully
        in the next couple of months.
</ul>
<h2> <A HREF="../../../psa/">PSA Discussion</A> </h2>
<ul>
    <li> Q: Should we have the meetings every six months?  
    <li> Greg: Six months seems good.
    <li> Maybe we should shift to Spring/Fall instead of Summer/Winter
    <li> Maybe we should have a early-fall (October) one somewhere
         other than Reston so that we can have a Reston workshop in
         the Spring (April).
    <li> Maybe we can hook up with a USENIX or ACM to help organize.
    <li> Maybe this fall's OOPSLA conference in San Jose can piggy-back
           a one day Python day or something...
    <li> It's been good, it's been real... See you next time :-)
</ul>
</body>
</html>






